blog: introducing kube-scheduler-simulator (#47104)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-07-xx-kube-scheduler-simulator/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kube-scheduler-simulator"
date: 2024-07-xx
slug: introducing-kube-scheduler-simulator

> canonicalUrl: https://kubernetes.dev/blog/2024/07/xx/introducing-kube-scheduler-simulator/

Reviewer: What's the reason for including the `canonicalURL` here? Is this blog mirrored from the [k8s.dev](https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/) site? If so, review comments should be added to the original content there.

Author: Sorry, actually I just copied those tags from another blog post. 

I saw Kwok's blog post, which I actually copied tags from, have two articles in two websites.
- https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/
- https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/

Would you recommend creating a blog post in kubernetes.dev too? What's the general difference between those two websites?

Reviewer 2: https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/ is aimed only at people contributing to Kubernetes
https://www.kubernetes.io/blog/ is aimed at people using to Kubernetes

Who is this article aimed at? I think people might be using this even though they are not Kubernetes contributors - right?

Author: > Who is this article aimed at? I think people might be using this even though they are not Kubernetes contributors - right?

Yes, correct. So, here's the place for kubernetes.io blog, right?
[Did you suggest](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/47104#pullrequestreview-2214335131) making the same post on .dev too? Or, is having it only here fine?

Reviewer 2: This article is in the right repo. No need to change it.

We never mirror from the general website to the contributor website, so there's also no need to open a PR against the contributor site for this article.

Understanding its behavior can be challenging due to the multitude of factors it considers. 
Even if a Pod seems to be scheduled as expected in your simple test cluster, 
it’s maybe because of a different reason from what you imagine, 
and could result in unexpected scheduling results in a large production environment.

The scheduler simulator aims to reveal this black box, 
enabling users to test their scheduling constraints, scheduler configurations, 
and custom plugins while checking every detailed part of scheduling decisions.

## What’s Kube-scheduler-simulator? 

The simulator’s core feature is its ability to expose the internal decisions of the scheduler. 
The scheduler operates based on the [Scheduling Framework](/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/), 
utilizing various plugins at different extension points; 
filter Nodes (Filter phase), score Nodes (Score phase), and ultimately determine the best Node for the Pod.

The simulator allows users to create Kubernetes resources and observe how each plugin influences the scheduling decisions for Pods.
This visibility helps users understand the scheduler’s workings and define appropriate scheduling constraints.

> ![Screenshot of the simulator web frontend](./simulator.png)

Reviewer: _Improvement:_ To display the image incorporate a '[figure](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure)' shortcode with a caption and maybe also include an alt attribute for better accessibility. Take a look at how the shortcode is utilized in a [previous blog post (here)](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/fa563d70564885ae829abf6a228ed4d082a77f75/content/en/blog/_posts/2021-09-29-data-duplication-in-data-heavy-k8s-env.md?plain=1#L108).

3. **Scheduler plugin developers**: Test your custom scheduler plugins or extenders, or use the debuggable scheduler in integration tests or development clusters.

## Getting started

The simulator only requires Docker to be installed on your machine; a Kubernetes cluster is not necessary.

```
git clone git@github.com:kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator.git
cd kube-scheduler-simulator
make docker_up
```

You can then access the simulator's web UI at http://localhost:3000.

Visit [Kube-scheduler-simulator repository](sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) for more details!

## Getting involved 

The Kube-scheduler-simulator is developed by Kubernetes SIG Scheduling. Your feedback and contributions are welcome!

Open issues or PRs at [Kube-scheduler-simulator repository](sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator)
Join the conversation on the #sig-scheduling slack channel.

## Acknowledgments

The simulator has been maintained by dedicated volunteer engineers, overcoming many challenges to reach its current form. 

A big shout out to all [the awesome contributors](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/graphs/contributors)!

> ![contributors](./contributors.png)

Reviewer: Same for this image; consider using '[figure](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure)' shortcode. Refer to how this shortcode was used in a [previous blog post (here)](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/fa563d70564885ae829abf6a228ed4d082a77f75/content/en/blog/_posts/2021-09-29-data-duplication-in-data-heavy-k8s-env.md?plain=1#L108).

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kube-scheduler-simulator"
date: 2024-07-xx
slug: introducing-kube-scheduler-simulator
author: Kensei Nakada (Tetrate)
---

The Kubernetes Scheduler is a crucial control plane component that determines which Node a Pod will run on. 
Thus, anyone utilizing Kubernetes relies on the scheduler.

[Kube-scheduler-simulator](sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) is a simulator for the Kubernetes scheduler, initially developed by Kensei Nakada as part of [Google Summer of Code 2021](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/). 

> This tool allows users to examine the scheduler’s behavior and decisions closely, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tool allows users to closely examine the scheduler’s behavior and decisions.
```

> making it useful for both casual users who employ scheduling constraints (e.g., PodAffinity) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is useful for casual users who employ scheduling constraints (e.g., PodAffinity) 
```

and experts who extend the scheduler with custom plugins.

## Motivation

The scheduler often appears as a black box, 
composed of many plugins that each contribute to the scheduling decision-making process from their unique perspectives. 
Understanding its behavior can be challenging due to the multitude of factors it considers. 
Even if a Pod seems to be scheduled as expected in your simple test cluster, 

> it’s maybe because of a different reason from what you imagine, 
> and could result in unexpected scheduling results in a large production environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
it may be for a different reason than what you imagine, 
which could result in unexpected scheduling results in a large production environment.
```

The scheduler simulator aims to reveal this black box, 
enabling users to test their scheduling constraints, scheduler configurations, 
and custom plugins while checking every detailed part of scheduling decisions.

## What’s Kube-scheduler-simulator? 

> The simulator’s core feature is its ability to expose the internal decisions of the scheduler. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The simulator’s core feature is its ability to expose the scheduler's internal decisions. 
```

    scheduler-simulator/score-result: >-
      {"node-jjfg5":{"ImageLocality":"0","NodeAffinity":"0","NodeResourcesBalancedAllocation":"52","NodeResourcesFit":"47","TaintToleration":"0","VolumeBinding":"0"},"node-mtb5x":{"ImageLocality":"0","NodeAffinity":"0","NodeResourcesBalancedAllocation":"76","NodeResourcesFit":"73","TaintToleration":"0","VolumeBinding":"0"}}
    scheduler-simulator/selected-node: node-mtb5x
```

Users can also integrate their custom plugins or extenders into the debuggable scheduler and visualize their results. 

> Also, this debuggable scheduler can run standalone, e.g., on any Kubernetes cluster or in integration tests. 
> Those would be useful to custom plugin developers to test their plugins or examine their custom scheduler in a real cluster with better debuggability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This debuggable scheduler can also run standalone, e.g., on any Kubernetes cluster or in integration tests. 
This would be useful to custom plugin developers who want to test their plugins or examine their custom scheduler in a real cluster with better debuggability.
```

## What are the use cases?

> 1. **Cluser users**: Examine if your scheduling constraints (e.g., PodAffinity, PodTopologySpread) work as intended.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Cluster users**: Examine if your scheduling constraints (e.g., PodAffinity, PodTopologySpread) work as intended.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kube-scheduler-simulator"
date: 2024-07-xx
slug: introducing-kube-scheduler-simulator
author: Kensei Nakada (Tetrate)
---

The Kubernetes Scheduler is a crucial control plane component that determines which Node a Pod will run on. 
Thus, anyone utilizing Kubernetes relies on the scheduler.

> [Kube-scheduler-simulator](sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) is a simulator for the Kubernetes scheduler, initially developed by Kensei Nakada as part of [Google Summer of Code 2021](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Kube-scheduler-simulator](https://sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) is a simulator for the Kubernetes scheduler, initially developed by Kensei Nakada as part of [Google Summer of Code 2021](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/).
```

it may be for a different reason than what you imagine, 
which could result in unexpected scheduling results in a large production environment.

The scheduler simulator aims to reveal this black box, 
enabling users to test their scheduling constraints, scheduler configurations, 
and custom plugins while checking every detailed part of scheduling decisions.

## What’s Kube-scheduler-simulator? 

The simulator’s core feature is its ability to expose the scheduler's internal decisions.
The scheduler operates based on the [Scheduling Framework](/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/), 
utilizing various plugins at different extension points; 
filter Nodes (Filter phase), score Nodes (Score phase), and ultimately determine the best Node for the Pod.

The simulator allows users to create Kubernetes resources and observe how each plugin influences the scheduling decisions for Pods.
This visibility helps users understand the scheduler’s workings and define appropriate scheduling constraints.

{{< figure src="/images/blog/2024-07-xx-kube-scheduler-simulator/simulator.png" alt="Screenshot of the simulator web frontend" title="The simulator web frontend" >}}

> Inside the simulator, instead of the vanilla scheduler, 
> it runs the debuggable scheduler, which outputs each scheduler plugin’s result from every extension point to Pod’s annotations. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
The sentence is redundant with Lines 45-46.

> it runs the debuggable scheduler, which outputs each scheduler plugin’s result from every extension point to Pod’s annotations. 
> Inside the simulator, a debuggable scheduler runs instead of the vanilla scheduler. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
it runs the debuggable scheduler, which outputs each scheduler plugin’s result from every extension point to the Pod’s annotations. 
```
The sentence in Line 45 is redundant with Lines 43-44.

> This debuggable scheduler outputs the results of each scheduler plugin at every extension point to the Pod’s annotations. 
> Actually, the web frontend just shows the results reading from the annotations.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This debuggable scheduler outputs the results of each scheduler plugin at every extension point to the Pod’s annotations 
and the web front end shows the results fetched from the annotations.
```

    scheduler-simulator/selected-node: node-mtb5x
```

Users can also integrate their custom plugins or extenders into the debuggable scheduler and visualize their results. 

This debuggable scheduler can also run standalone, e.g., on any Kubernetes cluster or in integration tests. 
This would be useful to custom plugin developers who want to test their plugins or examine their custom scheduler in a real cluster with better debuggability.

## What are the use cases?

1. **Cluster users**: Examine if your scheduling constraints (e.g., PodAffinity, PodTopologySpread) work as intended.
2. **Cluster admins**: Assess how your cluster would behave with changes to the scheduler configuration.
3. **Scheduler plugin developers**: Test your custom scheduler plugins or extenders, or use the debuggable scheduler in integration tests or development clusters.

## Getting started

The simulator only requires Docker to be installed on your machine; a Kubernetes cluster is not necessary.

```
git clone git@github.com:kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator.git
cd kube-scheduler-simulator
make docker_up
```

You can then access the simulator's web UI at http://localhost:3000.

> Visit [Kube-scheduler-simulator repository](sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) for more details!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Visit the [kube-scheduler-simulator repository](https://sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) for more details!
```

## Getting involved 

The Kube-scheduler-simulator is developed by Kubernetes SIG Scheduling. Your feedback and contributions are welcome!

Open issues or PRs at [Kube-scheduler-simulator repository](sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator)

> Join the conversation on the #sig-scheduling slack channel.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Join the conversation on the [#sig-scheduling](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-scheduling) slack channel.
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kube-scheduler-simulator"
date: 2024-07-xx
slug: introducing-kube-scheduler-simulator
author: Kensei Nakada (Tetrate)
---

> The Kubernetes Scheduler is a crucial control plane component that determines which Node a Pod will run on. 

Reviewer 6: As a convention, we use 'Node' when we refer to the Node resource defined by the API, and we use 'node' as a regular term when we refer to the machine where workloads are
scheduled and run.

This is a style recommendation for all docs on the site, though not a strict one for
logs. Please check the doc when proposing your next commit to this PR.

This tool allows users to closely examine the scheduler’s behavior and decisions. 

It is useful for casual users who employ scheduling constraints (e.g., inter-Pod affinity)
and experts who extend the scheduler with custom plugins.

## Motivation

The scheduler often appears as a black box, 
composed of many plugins that each contribute to the scheduling decision-making process from their unique perspectives. 
Understanding its behavior can be challenging due to the multitude of factors it considers. 
Even if a Pod seems to be scheduled as expected in your simple test cluster, 
it may be for a different reason than what you imagine, 
which could result in unexpected scheduling results in a large production environment.

Also, testing your scheduler is a complex challenge.
There are countless patterns of operations executed within a real cluster, making it impractical to anticipate every scenario with a finite number of tests. 
More often than not, bugs are discovered only when the scheduler is deployed in an actual cluster.

> Actually, many bugs are reported by users after we ship the release, and the bugs are found

Reviewer 6: Incomplete sentence?

Having a development or sandbox environment for testing the scheduler — or, indeed, any Kubernetes controllers — is a common practice.
However, this approach falls short of capturing all the potential scenarios that might arise in a production cluster 
because a development cluster is often much smaller with notable differences in workload sizes and scaling dynamics.
It never sees the exact same use or exhibits the same behavior as its production counterpart.

The scheduler simulator aims to solve those problems.
It enables users to test their scheduling constraints, scheduler configurations, 
and custom plugins while checking every detailed part of scheduling decisions.
It also allows you to create a simulated cluster environment, where you can test your scheduler
with the same resources as your production cluster without affecting your actual workloads.

## Features of the Kube-scheduler-simulator

The simulator’s core feature is its ability to expose the scheduler's internal decisions.

> The scheduler operates based on the [Scheduling Framework](/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/), 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The scheduler operates based on the [scheduling framework](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/), 
```

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing Kube-scheduler-simulator"
date: 2024-07-xx
slug: introducing-kube-scheduler-simulator
author: Kensei Nakada (Tetrate)
---

The Kubernetes Scheduler is a crucial control plane component that determines which Node a Pod will run on. 
Thus, anyone utilizing Kubernetes relies on the scheduler.

> [Kube-scheduler-simulator](https://sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) is a simulator for the Kubernetes scheduler, initially developed by Kensei Nakada as part of [Google Summer of Code 2021](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/).

Reviewer 2: As this is a blog article, you can write in the first person, and you are implicitly writing as you.

    scheduler-simulator/score-result: >-
      {"node-jjfg5":{"ImageLocality":"0","NodeAffinity":"0","NodeResourcesBalancedAllocation":"52","NodeResourcesFit":"47","TaintToleration":"0","VolumeBinding":"0"},"node-mtb5x":{"ImageLocality":"0","NodeAffinity":"0","NodeResourcesBalancedAllocation":"76","NodeResourcesFit":"73","TaintToleration":"0","VolumeBinding":"0"}}

>     scheduler-simulator/selected-node: node-mtb5x

Reviewer 2: If using this manifest unchanged, please call out that using the (unregistered) top level domain `scheduler-simulator` is **not** a recommended practice for Kubernetes object annotations. It's code from part of the Kubernetes project but it's not following Kubernetes good practice.

If possible, change the actual code to use a more appropriate domain name (eg `scheduler-simulator.sigs.k8s.io` - which would need [registering](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/)) **before** publication. If not feasible to do that, please explain that the domain name in the key is a known bug.

I don't want to tacitly endorse poor practice with an official-looking article.

---

BTW, you can register annotations with a PR against k/website. We aim for this to be easy; all you need say is that the annotation is used by https://sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator

Author: Thanks, created https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/issues/386.
We're about to ship a new release, and we can include the fix for it. The fix should be very easy.

Reviewer 2: Annotations now registered BTW

```

> Users can also integrate their custom plugins or extenders into the debuggable scheduler and visualize their results. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Users can also integrate their custom plugins or extenders, into the debuggable scheduler and visualize their results. 
```

This debuggable scheduler can also run standalone, e.g., on any Kubernetes cluster or in integration tests. 
This would be useful to custom plugin developers who want to test their plugins or examine their custom scheduler in a real cluster with better debuggability.

## The simulator as a better dev cluster

As mentioned earlier, with a limited set of tests, it is impossible to predict every possible scenario in a real-world cluster.
Typically, you will test the scheduler in a small, development cluster before deploying it to production, hoping that no issues arise.

> [The simulator’s importing feature](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/blob/master/simulator/docs/import-cluster-resources.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simulator's [importing](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/blob/simulator/v0.3.0/simulator/docs/import-cluster-resources.md)
feature
```

provides a solution by allowing you to simulate deploying a new scheduler version in a production-like environment without impacting your live workloads.

By continuously syncing between your production cluster and the simulator, you can safely test a new scheduler version with the same resources your production cluster handles. 
Once confident in its performance, you can proceed with the production deployment, reducing the risk of unexpected issues.

## What are the use cases?

> 1. **Cluster users**: Examine if your scheduling constraints (e.g., PodAffinity, PodTopologySpread) work as intended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Cluster users**: Examine if your scheduling constraints (e.g., Pod affinity, Pop topology spread) work as intended.
```

> 2. **Cluster admins**: Assess how your cluster would behave with changes to the scheduler configuration.
> 3. **Scheduler plugin developers**: Test your custom scheduler plugins or extenders, use the debuggable scheduler in integration tests or development clusters, and use [the syncing feature](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/blob/master/simulator/docs/import-cluster-resources.md) for testing within a production-like environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Cluster admins**: Assess how your cluster would behave with changes to the scheduler configuration.
1. **Scheduler plugin developers**: Test your custom scheduler plugins or extenders, use the debuggable scheduler in integration tests or development clusters, or use the [syncing](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/blob/simulator/v0.3.0/simulator/docs/import-cluster-resources.md) feature for testing within a production-like environment.
```

- The site renderer does the numbering for you
- We avoid linking to trunk-like branches (_main_, _master_ etc) as the link is unlikely to be long term stable.

## Getting started

The simulator only requires Docker to be installed on your machine; a Kubernetes cluster is not necessary.

```
git clone git@github.com:kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator.git
cd kube-scheduler-simulator
make docker_up
```

> You can then access the simulator's web UI at http://localhost:3000.

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
You can then access the simulator's web UI at `http://localhost:3000`.
```

Visit the [kube-scheduler-simulator repository](https://sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator) for more details!

## Getting involved 

> The Kube-scheduler-simulator is developed by Kubernetes SIG Scheduling. Your feedback and contributions are welcome!

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
The scheduler simulator is developed by Kubernetes SIG Scheduling. Your feedback and contributions are welcome!
```

> Open issues or PRs at [Kube-scheduler-simulator repository](sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator)

Reviewer 2: (nit)
```suggestion
Open issues or PRs at the [kube-scheduler-simulator repository](https://sigs.k8s.io/kube-scheduler-simulator).
```

Join the conversation on the [#sig-scheduling](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-scheduling) slack channel.

## Acknowledgments

The simulator has been maintained by dedicated volunteer engineers, overcoming many challenges to reach its current form. 

A big shout out to all [the awesome contributors](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/graphs/contributors)!

> ![contributors](./contributors.png)

Reviewer 2: This actually doesn't need a `figure` shortcode, but _should_ have a more descriptive `alt` attribute.

it may be for a different reason than what you imagine, 
which could result in unexpected scheduling results in a large production environment.

Also, testing your scheduler is a complex challenge.
There are countless patterns of operations executed within a real cluster, making it impractical to anticipate every scenario with a finite number of tests. 
More often than not, bugs are discovered only when the scheduler is deployed in an actual cluster.

> Actually, many bugs are reported by users after we ship the release, even in the upstream kube-scheduler. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Actually, many bugs are reported by users after we ship the release, and the bugs are found
even in the upstream kube-scheduler. 
```

> Having a development or sandbox environment for testing the scheduler — or, indeed, any Kubernetes controllers — is a common practice for this problem.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Having a development or sandbox environment for testing the scheduler — or, indeed, any Kubernetes controllers — is a common practice.
```

However, this approach falls short of capturing all the potential scenarios that might arise in a production cluster 

> because a development cluster is often much smaller, and never sees the exact same use or exhibits the same behavior as its production counterpart, 
> with notable differences in workload sizes and scaling dynamics.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
because a development cluster is often much smaller with notable differences in workload sizes and scaling dynamics.
It never sees the exact same use or exhibits the same behavior as its production counterpart.
```

The scheduler simulator aims to solve those problems.
It enables users to test their scheduling constraints, scheduler configurations, 
and custom plugins while checking every detailed part of scheduling decisions.

> It also allows us to create a simulated cluster environment, where you can test your scheduler with the same resources as your production cluster, but without affecting your actual workloads.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
It also allows you to create a simulated cluster environment, where you can test your scheduler
with the same resources as your production cluster without affecting your actual workloads.
```

This debuggable scheduler can also run standalone, e.g., on any Kubernetes cluster or in integration tests. 
This would be useful to custom plugin developers who want to test their plugins or examine their custom scheduler in a real cluster with better debuggability.

## The simulator as a better dev cluster

> As mentioned earlier, it is impossible to predict every possible scenario in a real-world cluster with a limited set of tests. Typically, we test the scheduler in a small, development cluster before deploying it to production, hoping no issues arise.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
As mentioned earlier, with a limited set of tests, it is impossible to predict every possible scenario in a real-world cluster.
Typically, you will test the scheduler in a small, development cluster before deploying it to production, hoping that no issues arise.
```

> [The simulator’s importing feature](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/blob/master/simulator/docs/import-cluster-resources.md) provides a solution by allowing you to simulate deploying a new scheduler version in a production-like environment without impacting your live workloads.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[The simulator’s importing feature](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kube-scheduler-simulator/blob/master/simulator/docs/import-cluster-resources.md)
provides a solution by allowing you to simulate deploying a new scheduler version in a production-like environment without impacting your live workloads.
```
